Create Executive vote - November 28, 2024.md (#2801)
makerdao/community: governance/votes/Executive vote - November 28, 2024.md

- Increase WSTETH-A SF by 1 percentage point from 9.25% to **10.25%**
- Increase WSTETH-B SF by 1 percentage point from 9.00% to **10.00%**
- Increase WBTC-A SF by 1 percentage point from 11.25% to **12.25%**
- Increase WBTC-B SF by 1 percentage point from 11.75% to **12.75%**
- Increase WBTC-C SF by 1 percentage point from 11.00% to **12.00%**
- Increase ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A SF by 4.11 percentage points from 5.2% to **9.31%**

### GSM Pause Delay Increase

- **Authorization**: [Governance Facilitator Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/november-28th-spell-parameter-proposal-esm-threshold-gsm-delay-increase/25579/2)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/november-28th-spell-parameter-proposal-esm-threshold-gsm-delay-increase/25579)

If this executive proposal passes, then the [GSM Pause Delay](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.8.2.1_Pause_Delay/a98b8227-95f6-4711-9d8d-f52cbc6ad2d0%7C0db30758e055) will be increased as follows:

- Increase the [GSM Pause Delay](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.8.2.1_Pause_Delay/a98b8227-95f6-4711-9d8d-f52cbc6ad2d0%7C0db30758e055) by 14 hours from 16 hours to **30 hours**.

### Addition of ilks to the `LineMom`

> - **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](hhttps://forum.sky.money/t/standby-spells-for-sky-emergency-response/25594/4)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/standby-spells-for-sky-emergency-response/25594/4)
```

---

> title: Template - [Executive Vote] Aave Lido Market USDS DDM Parameters Adjustments, ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A DC-IAM Changes, Surplus Buffer Upper Limit Increase, Stability Fee Changes, Savings Rate Changes, GSM Delay Increase, Addition of ilks to the LineMom, Addition of Standby Spells to the Chainlog, Launch Project Funding, Sky Ecosystem Liquidity Bootstrapping Funding, Integration Boost Funding, ESM Minimum Threshold Increase, AD Compensation for October 2024, Atlas Core Development Payments, Spark Proxy Spell - November 28, 2024

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Template - [Executive Vote] Aave Lido Market USDS DDM Parameters Adjustments, ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A DC-IAM Changes, Surplus Buffer Upper Limit Increase, Stability Fee Changes, Savings Rate Changes, GSM Delay Increase, Addition of ilks to the LineMom, Addition of Standby Spells to the Chainlog, Funding Disbursements, ESM Minimum Threshold Increase, AD and Atlas Core Development Compensation, Spark Proxy Spell - November 28, 2024
```

> summary: Increase Aave Lido Market USDS DDM line, change ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A DC-IAM parameters, increase Surplus Buffer Upper Limit, change multiple Stability Fees, increase DSR and SSR, increase GSM Delay, add ilks to the LineMom, add Standby Spells and Standby Spell Factories to the Chainlog, distribute funding for the Launch Project, the Sky Ecosystem Liquidity Bootstrapping, and the Integration Boost increase ESM Minimum Threshold, payout AD compensation for October 2024, make  Atlas Core Development payments, execute Spark Proxy Spell.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Increase Aave Lido Market USDS DDM line, change ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A DC-IAM parameters, increase Surplus Buffer Upper Limit, change multiple Stability Fees, increase DSR and SSR, increase GSM Delay, add ilks to the LineMom, add Standby Spells and Standby Spell Factories to the Chainlog, distribute funding for the Launch Project, the Sky Ecosystem Liquidity Bootstrapping, and the Integration Boost, increase ESM Minimum Threshold, payout AD compensation for October 2024, make  Atlas Core Development payments, execute Spark Proxy Spell.
```

date: 2024-11-28T00:00:00.000Z
address: "$spell_address"

---

> # [Executive Vote] Aave Lido Market USDS DDM Parameters Adjustments, ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A DC-IAM Changes, Surplus Buffer Upper Limit Increase, Stability Fee Changes, Savings Rate Changes, GSM Delay Increase, Addition of ilks to the LineMom, Addition of Standby Spells to the Chainlog, Launch Project Funding, Sky Ecosystem Liquidity Bootstrapping Funding, Integration Boost Funding, ESM Minimum Threshold Increase, AD Compensation for October 2024, Atlas Core Development Payments, Spark Proxy Spell - November 28, 2024

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# [Executive Vote] Aave Lido Market USDS DDM Parameters Adjustments, ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A DC-IAM Changes, Surplus Buffer Upper Limit Increase, Stability Fee Changes, Savings Rate Changes, GSM Delay Increase, Addition of ilks to the LineMom, Addition of Standby Spells to the Chainlog, Funding Disbursements, ESM Minimum Threshold Increase, AD and Atlas Core Development Compensation, Spark Proxy Spell - November 28, 2024
```

- The Aave Lido Market USDS Direct Deposit Module (DDM) line will be increased.
- The ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A [Debt Ceiling Instant Access Module (DC-IAM)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.1.2.4_Debt_Ceiling_Instant_Access_Module_(DC_IAM)-071d42e3-8a21-4401-852e-0b52c49768bb|57eaf45219bea3b430c2) parameters will be changed.
- The [Surplus Buffer Upper Limit (`vow.hump`)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.5.1_Surplus_Buffer_Splitter_Parameters/122f2ff0-8d73-80f8-9a2a-d221794f73f5%7C57ea2c54) will be increased.
- The [Stability Fees](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.1.2.3_Stability_Fee-67e40a3b-f1c2-4dc6-b502-2affeab0b232|57eaf45219bea3b430c2) for multiple vault types will be changed, as itemized below.
- The [Savings Rates (DSR and SSR)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.4.3.1_Savings_Rates/5586fe33-b0af-41f0-9629-b1716c7c0967%7Cb3417d54) will be increased.
- The [GSM Pause Delay](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.8.2.1_Pause_Delay/a98b8227-95f6-4711-9d8d-f52cbc6ad2d0%7C0db30758e055) will be increased.
- Seven ilks will be added to the [`LineMom`](https://github.com/makerdao/line-mom/tree/master).

> - [Four Standby Spell factories and three multi-ilk Standby Spells](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells) will be added to the Chainlog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Four Standby Spell factories and three Global/Multi-ilk Standby Spells](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells) will be added to the Chainlog.
```

- A total of **19 million USDS** and **24 million SKY** will be distributed to fund the Launch Project, the Sky Ecosystem Liquidity Boostrapping budget, and the Integration Boost budget.

> - The [Emergency Shutdown Module (ESM)][(https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-emergency-shutdown](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/shutdown/emergency-shutdown-module)) minimum threshold (`min`) will be increased.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [Emergency Shutdown Module (ESM)](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/shutdown/emergency-shutdown-module) minimum threshold (`min`) will be increased.
```

- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/28-nov-2024-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell-amendments/25575)

If this executive proposal passes, then the [ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A) [Debt Ceiling Instant Access Module (DC-IAM)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.1.2.4_Debt_Ceiling_Instant_Access_Module_(DC_IAM)-071d42e3-8a21-4401-852e-0b52c49768bb|57eaf45219bea3b430c2) parameters will be changed as follows:

- Increase DC-IAM [Target Available Debt (`gap`)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.4.1.5.1.1.4_Target_Available_Debt_Definition-b876ecf4-a901-4721-9c4b-9f2fc21f954c|57ea599773d45150b2632df9) by 90 million USDS from 10 million USDS to **100 million USDS**.
- Increase DC-IAM [Maximum Debt Ceiling (`line`)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.4.1.5.1.1.3_Maximum_Debt_Ceiling_Definition-e4a0d8f1-4a01-46a7-b693-a94e7f4afc1a|57ea599773d45150b2632df9) by 90 million USDS from 10 million USDS to **100 million USDS**.

> The [Ceiling Increase Cooldown (`ttl`)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.4.1.5.1.1.5_Ceiling_Increase_Cooldown_Definition-3d5980c5-7036-4b68-93e0-a48551fe09ed|57ea599773d45150b2632df9) will remain unchanged at **24 hours**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The [Ceiling Increase Cooldown (`ttl`)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.4.1.5.1.1.5_Ceiling_Increase_Cooldown_Definition-3d5980c5-7036-4b68-93e0-a48551fe09ed|57ea599773d45150b2632df9) will remain unchanged at **24 hours**.
```

- [ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/ALLOCATOR-SPARK-A)
- [RWA001-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/RWA001-A)
- [RWA002-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/RWA002-A)
- [RWA009-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/RWA009-A)
- [RWA012-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/RWA012-A)
- [RWA013-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/RWA013-A)
- [RWA015-A](https://makerburn.com/#/collateral/RWA015-A)

### Addition of Standby Spells to the Chainlog

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Approval](https://forum.sky.money/t/standby-spells-for-sky-emergency-response/25594/4)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/standby-spells-for-sky-emergency-response/25594)

[Standby Spells](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells) are reusable pre-deployed spells that bypass the [GSM Pause Delay](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.8.2.1_Pause_Delay/a98b8227-95f6-4711-9d8d-f52cbc6ad2d0%7C0db30758e055) when executed, so that their effects are immediate.

> Standby Spells are formally defined in the Atlas under [article_number]($link_to_atlas_article). Additionally, you can read an introduction to them on [this November 25, 2024 forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/standby-spells-for-sky-emergency-response/25594) by a Governance Facilitator. For detailed technical information, please visit the [GitHub repository at GitHub - makerdao/dss-emergency-spells: Emergency Spells for MakerDAO](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read an introduction to them on [this November 25, 2024 forum post](https://forum.sky.money/t/standby-spells-for-sky-emergency-response/25594) by a Governance Facilitator. For detailed technical information, please visit the [GitHub repository at GitHub - makerdao/dss-emergency-spells: Emergency Spells for MakerDAO](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells).
```

> Each Standby Spell is capable of some single action. Standby Spells that trigger some action on _all_ ilks susceptible to having the action applied to them are called _Multi-Ilk Standby Spells_; Standby Spells that trigger some action on _some single_ ilk are called _Single-Ilk Standby Spells_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Standby Spell is capable of some single action. Standby Spells that trigger some action on _all_ ilks susceptible to having the action applied to them are called _Global/Multi-Ilk Standby Spells_; Standby Spells that trigger some action on _some single_ ilk are called _Single-Ilk Standby Spells_.
```

Reviewer: The new official name is Global, but I was asked to use both names on this executive to avoid confusing people

> If this executive proposal passes, then the following _Standby Spell Factories_ (i.e., contracts capable of spawning Single-Ilk Standby Spells for some action) and _Multi-Ilk Standby Spells_ will be added to the [Chainlog](https://chainlog.sky.money).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes, then the following _Standby Spell Factories_ (i.e., contracts capable of spawning Single-Ilk Standby Spells for some action) and _Global/Multi-Ilk Standby Spells_ will be added to the [Chainlog](https://chainlog.sky.money).
```

#### Standby Spell Factories

| Name | Action of Standby Spells Spawned | Chainlog Key | Address |
|---|---|---|---|
| SingleClipBreakerFactory | [Set Clip Breaker](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells#set-clip-breaker) | EMSP_CLIP_BREAKER_FAB | [0xd7321d0919573a33f9147fd2579a48f60237564a](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd7321d0919573a33f9147fd2579a48f60237564a) |
| SingleDdmDisableFactory | [Disable DDM](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells#disable-ddm) | EMSP_DDM_DISABLE_FAB | [0x8BA0f6C4009Ea915706e1bCfB1d879E34587dC69](https://etherscan.io/address/0x8BA0f6C4009Ea915706e1bCfB1d879E34587dC69) |
| SingleLineWipeFactory | [Wipe `line`](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells#wipe-line) | EMSP_LINE_WIPE_FAB | [0xA649730fA92695096b7C49DBae682995F8906684](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA649730fA92695096b7C49DBae682995F8906684) |
| SingleOsmStopFactory | [Stop OSM](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells#stop-osm) | EMSP_OSM_STOP_FAB | [0x83211c74131bA2B3de7538f588f1c2f309e81eF0](https://etherscan.io/address/0x83211c74131bA2B3de7538f588f1c2f309e81eF0) |

> #### Multi-ilk Standby Spells

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Global/Multi-ilk Standby Spells
```

| Name | Action | Chainlog Key | Address |
|---|---|---|---|
| MultiClipBreakerSpell | [Set Clip Breaker](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells#set-clip-breaker) | EMSP_GLOBAL_CLIP_BREAKER | [0x828824dBC62Fba126C76E0Abe79AE28E5393C2cb](https://etherscan.io/address/0x828824dBC62Fba126C76E0Abe79AE28E5393C2cb) |
| MultiLineWipeSpell | [Wipe `line`](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells#wipe-line) | EMSP_GLOBAL_LINE_WIPE | [0x4B5f856B59448304585C2AA009802A16946DDb0f](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4B5f856B59448304585C2AA009802A16946DDb0f) |
| MultiOsmStopSpell | [Stop OSM](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-emergency-spells#stop-osm) | EMSP_GLOBAL_OSM_STOP | [0x3021dEdB0bC677F43A23Fcd1dE91A07e5195BaE8](https://etherscan.io/address/0x3021dEdB0bC677F43A23Fcd1dE91A07e5195BaE8) |

### Launch Project Funding

- **Authorization**: [Atlas A.5.6](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.5.6_Launch_Project/1f433d9d-7cdb-406f-b7e8-f9bc4855eb77%7C8d5a)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/utilization-of-the-launch-project-under-the-accessibility-scope/21468/26)

> If this executive proposal passes, then the following Launch Project funding distribution will be made:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this executive proposal passes, then the following Launch Project funding distributions will be made:
```

### ESM Minimum Threshold Increase

- **Authorization**: [Governance Facilitator Authorization](https://forum.sky.money/t/november-28th-spell-parameter-proposal-esm-threshold-gsm-delay-increase/25579/2)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/november-28th-spell-parameter-proposal-esm-threshold-gsm-delay-increase/25579)

If this executive proposal passes, then the [Emergency Shutdown Module (ESM)](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/shutdown/emergency-shutdown-module) [Minimum Threshold (`min`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-emergency-shutdown#minimum-threshold-min) will be increased by 200,000 MKR from 300,000 MKR to **500,000 MKR**.

### Aligned Delegate Compensation for October 2024

- **Authorization**: [Atlas A.1.5.8](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.5.8_Budget_For_Prime_Delegate_Slots/e3e420fc-9b1f-4fdc-9983-fcebc45dd3aa%7C0db3af4ece0c)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/october-2024-aligned-delegate-compensation/25581)

If this executive proposal passes, then a total of **20,701 USDS** will be distributed to six Aligned Delegates and their teams as compensation for October 2024.

> | Delegate | Amount (USDS) | Address |

Reviewer 2: For verification, the ordering here should match the order on the Exec sheet. Non-blocking

> |---|---|---|
> | BONAPUBLICA | 4,000 | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
> | Cloaky | 4,000 | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |
> | JuliaChang | 4,000 | [0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7) |
> | Vigilant | 4,000 | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |
> | BLUE | 2,968 | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
> | Byteron | 1,733 | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|---|---|---|
| BLUE | 2,968 | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
| BONAPUBLICA | 4,000 | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
| Byteron | 1,733 | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |
| Cloaky | 4,000 | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |
| JuliaChang | 4,000 | [0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7) |
| Vigilant | 4,000 | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |

```

> 
> | Delegate | Amount (USDS) | Address |
> |---|---|---|
> | BLUE | 2,968 | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
> | BONAPUBLICA | 4,000 | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
> | Byteron | 1,733 | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |
> | Cloaky | 4,000 | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |
> | JuliaChang | 4,000 | [0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7) |
> | Vigilant | 4,000 | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

| Delegate | Amount (USDS) | Address |
|---|---|---|
| BONAPUBLICA | 4,000 | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3]
(https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
| Cloaky | 4,000 | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |
| JuliaChang | 4,000 | [0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7](https://etherscan.io/address/0x252abAEe2F4f4b8D39E5F12b163eDFb7fac7AED7) |
| Vigilant | 4,000 | [0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61](https://etherscan.io/address/0x2474937cB55500601BCCE9f4cb0A0A72Dc226F61) |
| BLUE | 2,968 | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
| Byteron | 1,733 | [0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66](https://etherscan.io/address/0xc2982e72D060cab2387Dba96b846acb8c96EfF66) |

```

### Atlas Core Development Payment to Key Atlas Contributors

- **Authorization**: [Ecosystem Authorization](https://forum.sky.money/t/atlas-core-development-payment-requests-november-2024/25580/8), Atlas Axis Authorizations [1](https://forum.sky.money/t/atlas-core-development-payment-requests-november-2024/25580/4), [2](https://forum.sky.money/t/atlas-core-development-payment-requests-november-2024/25580/6)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/atlas-core-development-payment-requests-november-2024/25580)

If this executive proposal passes, then a total of **90,277 USDS** and **330,000 SKY** will be distributed to three Atlas Core Development key contributors.

> | Contributor | Amount | Address |

Reviewer 2: For verification, the ordering here should match the order on the Exec sheet. Non-blocking

> |---|---|---|
> | Ennoia (Cloaky) | 20,110 USDS | [0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b) |
> | Kohla (Cloaky) | 20,000 USDS | [0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a) |
> | BLUE | 50,167 USDS | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
> | BLUE | 330,000 SKY | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|---|---|---|
| Kohla (Cloaky) | 20,000 USDS | [0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a) |
| Ennoia (Cloaky) | 20,110 USDS | [0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b) |
| BLUE | 50,167 USDS | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |
| BLUE | 330,000 SKY | [0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf](https://etherscan.io/address/0xb6C09680D822F162449cdFB8248a7D3FC26Ec9Bf) |

```

> | Kohla (Cloaky) | 20,000 USDS | [0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a) |
> | Ennoia (Cloaky) | 20,110 USDS | [0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ennoia (Cloaky) | 20,110 USDS | [0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b](https://etherscan.io/address/0xA7364a1738D0bB7D1911318Ca3FB3779A8A58D7b) |
| Kohla (Cloaky) | 20,000 USDS | [0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a](https://etherscan.io/address/0x73dFC091Ad77c03F2809204fCF03C0b9dccf8c7a) |
```

#### [Mainnet] Spark Effective DAI Borrow Rate Increase

- Increase the Spark Effective DAI Borrow Rate by ~1 percentage point, from ~8.5% to **~9.5%**.

#### [Mainnet] Adjust SparkLend Parameters for [WBTC](https://spark.blockanalitica.com/v1/ethereum/markets/WBTC/risk)

- Reduce SparkLend WBTC [liquidation threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition-9170a423-fba1-4fbe-83c4-f55f2510a9db%7C57eaf45219be608847d6) by 5 percentage points from 65% to **60%**.

#### [Mainnet] Adjust SparkLend Parameters for [cbBTC](https://spark.blockanalitica.com/v1/ethereum/markets/cbBTC/risk)

- Increase cbBTC [liquidation threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition-9170a423-fba1-4fbe-83c4-f55f2510a9db|57eaf45219be608847d6) by 5 percentage points from 70% to **75%**.
- Increase cbBTC [maximum LTV](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.6.1.4_LTV_Definition/e5d19de9-0eb7-4572-857c-e83d91d92c88%7C57eaf45219be608847d6) by 9 percentage points from 65% to **74%**.

#### [Mainnet] Onboard PT-USDe-27Mar2025 to Morpho Spark DAI Vault and Adjust PT-sUSDe-27Mar2025 Pool Parameters

> - Onboard PT-USDe-27Mar2025 to Morpho Spark DAI Vault with the configurations that follow: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Onboard [PT-USDe-27Mar2025](https://morpho.blockanalitica.com/ethereum/markets/ab0dcab71e65c05b7f241ea79a33452c87e62db387129e4abe15e458d433e4d8) to Morpho Spark DAI Vault with the configurations that follow: 
```

- **Authorization**: [Governance Facilitator Authorization](https://forum.sky.money/t/november-28th-spell-parameter-proposal-esm-threshold-gsm-delay-increase/25579/2)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/november-28th-spell-parameter-proposal-esm-threshold-gsm-delay-increase/25579)

If this executive proposal passes, then the [Emergency Shutdown Module (ESM)](https://docs.makerdao.com/smart-contract-modules/shutdown/emergency-shutdown-module) [Minimum Threshold (`min`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-emergency-shutdown#minimum-threshold-min) will be increased by 200,000 MKR from 300,000 MKR to **500,000 MKR**.

### Aligned Delegate Compensation for October 2024

- **Authorization**: [Atlas A.1.5.8](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.1.5.8_Budget_For_Prime_Delegate_Slots/e3e420fc-9b1f-4fdc-9983-fcebc45dd3aa%7C0db3af4ece0c)
- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/october-2024-aligned-delegate-compensation/25581)

If this executive proposal passes, then a total of **20,701 USDS** will be distributed to six Aligned Delegates and their teams as compensation for October 2024.

| Delegate | Amount (USDS) | Address |
|---|---|---|

> | BONAPUBLICA | 4,000 | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3]
> (https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
> | Cloaky | 4,000 | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| BONAPUBLICA | 4,000 | [0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3](https://etherscan.io/address/0x167c1a762B08D7e78dbF8f24e5C3f1Ab415021D3) |
| Cloaky | 4,000 | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) |
```

- **Proposal**: [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/28-nov-2024-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell/25543), [Forum Post](https://forum.sky.money/t/28-nov-2024-proposed-changes-to-spark-for-upcoming-spell-amendments/25575)

If this executive proposal passes, then a Spark Proxy Spell at [0x6c87D984689CeD0bB367A58722aC74013F82267d](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6c87D984689CeD0bB367A58722aC74013F82267d) will be executed. The expected contents are as follows:

#### [Mainnet] Spark Effective DAI Borrow Rate Increase

> - Increase the Spark Effective DAI Borrow Rate by ~1%, from ~8.5% to **~9.5%**.

Reviewer: I changed this because I thought it was more consistent to keep the same units throughout. Why do you think using percentage points instead would be better?

> - Increase the Spark Effective DAI Borrow Rate by ~1%, from ~8.5% to **~9.5%**.

Reviewer: I see the other sections follow your approach. I think it’s better to adjust my part rather than changing the entire document

#### [Mainnet] Adjust SparkLend Parameters for [WBTC](https://spark.blockanalitica.com/v1/ethereum/markets/WBTC/risk)

> - Reduce SparkLend WBTC [liquidation threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition-9170a423-fba1-4fbe-83c4-f55f2510a9db%7C57eaf45219be608847d6) from 65% to **60%**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Reduce SparkLend WBTC [liquidation threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition-9170a423-fba1-4fbe-83c4-f55f2510a9db%7C57eaf45219be608847d6) by 5 percentage points from 65% to **60%**.
```

#### [Mainnet] Adjust SparkLend Parameters for [cbBTC](https://spark.blockanalitica.com/v1/ethereum/markets/cbBTC/risk)

> - Increase cbBTC [liquidation threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition-9170a423-fba1-4fbe-83c4-f55f2510a9db|57eaf45219be608847d6) by 5% from 70% to **75%**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Increase cbBTC [liquidation threshold](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.3.8.1.6.1.5_Liquidation_Threshold_Definition-9170a423-fba1-4fbe-83c4-f55f2510a9db|57eaf45219be608847d6) by 5 percentage points from 70% to **75%**.
```

> - Increase cbBTC [maximum LTV](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.6.1.4_LTV_Definition/e5d19de9-0eb7-4572-857c-e83d91d92c88%7C57eaf45219be608847d6) by 9% from 65% to **74%**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Increase cbBTC [maximum LTV](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.8.1.6.1.4_LTV_Definition/e5d19de9-0eb7-4572-857c-e83d91d92c88%7C57eaf45219be608847d6) by 9 percentage points from 65% to **74%**.
```

#### [Mainnet] Onboard PT-USDe-27Mar2025 to Morpho Spark DAI Vault and Adjust PT-sUSDe-27Mar2025 Pool Parameters

- Onboard PT-USDe-27Mar2025 to Morpho Spark DAI Vault with the configurations that follow: 
  - Pool LLTV: **91.5%**
  - Oracle discount rate: **20%**
  - Supply cap: **100 million DAI**

> - Adjust [PT-sUSDe-27Mar2025](https://morpho.blockanalitica.com/ethereum/markets/5e3e6b1e01c5708055548d82d01db741e37d03b948a7ef9f3d4b962648bcbfa7) pool parameters as described below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Increase [PT-sUSDe-27Mar2025](https://morpho.blockanalitica.com/ethereum/markets/5e3e6b1e01c5708055548d82d01db741e37d03b948a7ef9f3d4b962648bcbfa7) pool supply cap by 200 million DAI, from 200 million DAI to **400 million DAI**.
```

>   - Increase PT-sUSDe-27Mar2025 pool supply cap by 200 million DAI, from 200 million DAI to **400 million DAI**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> #### [Base] Corrections to Base executor configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### [Base] Corrections to Base Executor Configuration
```

- Update the following parameters for [Spark Governance on Base](https://basescan.org/address/0xF93B7122450A50AF3e5A76E1d546e95Ac1d0F579#readContract):
  - Decrease the `delay` parameter from 100 seconds to **0 seconds**.
  - Increase the `gracePeriod` parameter from 1,000 seconds to **604,800 seconds (7 days)**.
 

> #### Provision liquidity to Base ALM Proxy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Provision Liquidity to Base ALM Proxy
```

> -  Increase the amount of sUSDS available on Base by **90 million sUSDS**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Increase the amount of sUSDS available on Base by **90 million sUSDS** by:
   - Increasing the [Target Availible Debt (DC-IAM gap)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.4.1.5.1.1.4_Target_Available_Debt_Definition/b876ecf4-a901-4721-9c4b-9f2fc21f954c%7C57ea599773d45150b2632df9) from 10 million USDS to **100 million USDS**.
   - Increasing the [Maximum Debt Ceiling (DC-IAM line)](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/A.3.4.1.5.1.1.3_Maximum_Debt_Ceiling_Definition/e4a0d8f1-4a01-46a7-b693-a94e7f4afc1a%7C57ea599773d45150b2632df9) from 10 million USDS to **100 million USDS**.
```

Reviewer: The DC-IAM gap and line are part of the core spell and are already listed there, but I added this section because the Spark Proxy Spell needs to perform the action of bridging the USDS tokens and swapping them for sUSDS
